



















Calculate your startup costs | U.S. Small Business Administration













  Skip to main content












            An official website of the United States government
          

            Here’s how you know
          


Here’s how you know









 Official websites use .gov 

                A .gov website belongs to an official government
                organization in the United States.            






 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 

                A lock (
                
Lock
Locked padlock

                ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
                the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
                secure websites.            

















Special announcement

Senate Democrats voted to block a clean federal funding bill (H.R. 5371), leading to a government shutdown that is preventing the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) from serving America’s 36 million small businesses.
Every day that Senate Democrats continue to oppose a clean funding bill, they are stopping an estimated 320 small businesses from accessing $170 million in SBA-guaranteed funding.
As a result of the shutdown, we wanted to notify you that many of our services supporting small businesses are currently unavailable.  The agency is executing its Lapse Plan and as soon as the shutdown is over, we are prepared to immediately return to the record-breaking services we were providing under the leadership of the Trump Administration.
If you need disaster assistance, please visit sba.gov/disaster.

















EnglishEspañol


        Menu
      








Primary Navigation







Business Guide




 Explore our business guide




 10 steps to start your business



 Plan your business



 Market research and competitive analysis



 Write your business plan



 Calculate your startup costs



 Establish business credit



 Fund your business



 Buy an existing business or franchise





 Launch your business



 Pick your business location



 Choose a business structure



 Choose your business name



 Register your business



 Get federal and state tax ID numbers



 Apply for licenses and permits



 Open a business bank account



 Get business insurance





 Manage your business



 Manage your finances



 Hire and manage employees



 Pay taxes



 Stay legally compliant



 Buy assets and equipment



 Marketing and sales



 AI for small business



 Strengthen your cybersecurity



 Prepare for emergencies



 Recover from disasters



 Close or sell your business



 Hire employees with disabilities





 Grow your business



 Get more funding



 Expand to new locations



 Merge and acquire businesses



 Become a federal contractor



 Export products



 Women-owned businesses



 Native American-owned businesses



 Veteran-owned businesses



 Military spouse businesses



 Rural businesses



 Minority-owned businesses










Funding Programs




 Find funding programs




 Loans



 Make a payment to SBA



 7(a) loans



 504 loans



 Microloans



 Lender Match



 COVID-19 relief options





 Investment capital



 SBIC directory





 Disaster assistance



 Alaska floods



 Texas floods



 California wildfires



 Hurricane Helene



 Physical damage loans



 Mitigation assistance



 Economic Injury Disaster Loans



 Military reservist loan





 Surety bonds



 Surety bond agency directory





 Grants



 Manufacturing grants



 State Trade Expansion Program (STEP)



 Grants for community organizations










Federal Contracting




 Learn about federal contracting




 Contracting guide



 Assess your business



 Basic requirements



 How to win contracts



 Types of contracts



 Size standards



 Governing rules and responsibilities



 Prime and subcontracting





 Contracting assistance programs



 Small Disadvantaged Business



 Women-Owned Small Business Federal Contract program



 Veteran contracting assistance programs



 8(a) Business Development program



 SBA Mentor-Protégé program



 Joint ventures



 HUBZone program



 Natural Resource Sales Assistance program





 Counseling and help



 Contracting area directors



 Procurement Center Representative directory



 Commercial Market Representatives





 Contracting data



 Small business procurement scorecard



 Disaggregated data










Learning Platform




 Explore our learning platform




 MySBA Learning



 Boots to Business



 SBA THRIVE



 Empower to Grow








Local Assistance




 Find resources in your area




 Resource Partners



 Small Business Development Centers (SBDC)



 SCORE Business Mentoring



 Veterans Business Outreach Centers (VBOC)



 Women's Business Centers





 Export and trade assistance



 Finance Managers



 U.S. Export Assistance Centers





 Federal contracting assistance



 Regional Innovation Clusters



 Veterans Business Development Officers








Priorities




 Discover SBA's priorities




 Putting American manufacturers first



 Cutting red tape for small manufacturers



 Increasing access to capital



 Make Onshoring Great Again portal



 Taking your manufacturing business global



 Manufacturing success stories





 Small business resource hubs



 Child care business development support



 Interagency capital resources for small businesses





 SBA initiatives



 Community Builders Network



 Small Businesses Against Trafficking in Persons (SBATiP)





 Councils and committees



 National Small Business Development Center Advisory Board



 Invention, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Advisory Committee



 Investment Capital Advisory Committee



 Small Business Lending Advisory Council



 Regional Regulatory Fairness Boards










About SBA




 Learn about SBA




 SBA locations



 Headquarters Offices



 Disaster Offices



 District Offices



 Loan and Guaranty Centers





 Open government



 FOIA



 Digital SBA



 About the SBA.gov website



 SBA privacy program



 Privacy Act request guide



 Information quality



 SBA guidance



 AI inventory



 Made in America waivers



 SMS terms and conditions





 SBA Newsroom



 Work for SBA



 Employee life



 Jobs at SBA



 Contracting for SBA



 Disaster response jobs at SBA





 Organization



 SBA leadership



 Contact SBA



 Forms and documents



 Observances



 Performance



 Federal advisory committees





 Oversight and advocacy



 Office of Hearings and Appeals



 Office of Inspector General



 Office of the National Ombudsman



 Office of Advocacy





 Information in other languages











            For Partners
          



            Newsroom
          



            Contact us
          



            Other languages
          




Search
















Breadcrumb



Home




Business Guide




Plan your business



Calculate your startup costs













Section navigation



10 steps to start your business




Plan your business




Market research and competitive analysis




Write your business plan




Calculate your startup costs




Break-even point






Establish business credit




Fund your business




Buy an existing business or franchise






Launch your business




Manage your business




Grow your business







Calculate your startup costs





      How much money will it take to start your small business? Calculate the startup costs for your small business so you can request funding, attract investors, and estimate when you’ll turn a profit.
    


Content





      Calculate your business startup costs before you launch
    


The key to a successful business is preparation. Before your business opens its doors, you’ll have bills to pay. Understanding your expenses will help you launch successfully.
Calculating startup costs helps you:

Estimate profits
Conduct a break-even analysis
Secure loans
Attract investors
Save money with tax deductions







          Break-Even Analysis Calculator
        

Use this calculator to discover your break-even point and determine your future profits.

Get your profit analysis






      Identify your startup expenses
    


Most businesses fall into one of three categories: brick-and-mortar businesses, online businesses, and service providers. You’ll face different startup expenses depending on your business type.







Brick and mortar















Online















Service















There are common startup costs you’re likely to have no matter what. Look through the following list, and make sure to add any other expenses that are unique to your business:

Office space
Equipment and supplies
Communications
Utilities
Licenses and permits
Insurance
Lawyer and accountant
Inventory
Employee salaries
Advertising and marketing
Market research
Printed marketing materials
Making a website





      Estimate how much your expenses will cost
    


Once you have your list of expenses, you can estimate how much they’ll actually cost. This process will be different for each expense you have.
Some expenses will have well-defined costs — permits and licenses tend to have clear, published costs. You might have to estimate other costs that are less certain, like employee salaries. Look online and talk directly to mentors, vendors, and service providers to see what similar companies pay for expenses.




      Add up your expenses for a full financial picture
    


Once you’ve identified your business expenses and how much they’ll cost, you should organize your expenses into one-time expenses and monthly expenses.
One-time expenses are the initial costs needed to start the business. Buying major equipment, hiring a logo designer, and paying for permits, licenses, and fees are generally considered to be one-time expenses. You can typically deduct one-time expenses for tax purposes, which can save you money on the amount of taxes you’ll owe. Make sure to keep track of your expenses and talk to your accountant when it’s time to file your taxes.
Monthly expenses typically include things like salaries, rent, and utility bills. You’ll want to count at least one year of monthly expenses, but counting five years is ideal.
Add up your one-time and monthly expenses to get a good picture of how much capital you’ll need and when you’ll need it.




      Use your startup cost calculations to get startup funding
    


It’s a good idea to create a formal report of your expected startup costs.
You want it in a format that’s clear and easy to understand. Investors and lenders compare expected costs to projected revenue and determine the potential for your business to profit.






          See what it will cost to start your business
        

Download this fillable PDF spreadsheet to calculate your small business startup costs.

Calculate startup costs







Need help? Get free business counseling

Find counselors






                          Last updated July 19, 2024          








Return to top







Footer navigation



About SBA


Contact SBA


Locations


Upcoming events


Newsroom


SBA blog


Leadership team







About the site


Site map


Privacy policy


Linking policy


Plain language


Accessibility


Disclaimers







Open government


Freedom of Information Act


No Fear Act


Open data sources


Policies and guidance


Budget and performance


Regulations.gov







Oversight


Inspector General


Advocacy


Hearings and appeals


Ombudsman


Fraud and identity theft


WhiteHouse.gov


USA.gov










Sign up
Receive information about upcoming SBA events, news alerts, and program updates.

*
    indicates a required field




Email



ZIP Code








  Your information will only be used in accordance with our
  website privacy policy.

















U.S. Small Business Administration409 3rd St., SWWashington, DC 20416800-827-5722










































