



















Market research and competitive analysis | U.S. Small Business Administration













  Skip to main content












            An official website of the United States government
          

            Here’s how you know
          


Here’s how you know









 Official websites use .gov 

                A .gov website belongs to an official government
                organization in the United States.            






 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 

                A lock (
                
Lock
Locked padlock

                ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
                the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
                secure websites.            

















Special announcement

Senate Democrats voted to block a clean federal funding bill (H.R. 5371), leading to a government shutdown that is preventing the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) from serving America’s 36 million small businesses.
Every day that Senate Democrats continue to oppose a clean funding bill, they are stopping an estimated 320 small businesses from accessing $170 million in SBA-guaranteed funding.
As a result of the shutdown, we wanted to notify you that many of our services supporting small businesses are currently unavailable.  The agency is executing its Lapse Plan and as soon as the shutdown is over, we are prepared to immediately return to the record-breaking services we were providing under the leadership of the Trump Administration.
If you need disaster assistance, please visit sba.gov/disaster.

















EnglishEspañol


        Menu
      








Primary Navigation







Business Guide




 Explore our business guide




 10 steps to start your business



 Plan your business



 Market research and competitive analysis



 Write your business plan



 Calculate your startup costs



 Establish business credit



 Fund your business



 Buy an existing business or franchise





 Launch your business



 Pick your business location



 Choose a business structure



 Choose your business name



 Register your business



 Get federal and state tax ID numbers



 Apply for licenses and permits



 Open a business bank account



 Get business insurance





 Manage your business



 Manage your finances



 Hire and manage employees



 Pay taxes



 Stay legally compliant



 Buy assets and equipment



 Marketing and sales



 AI for small business



 Strengthen your cybersecurity



 Prepare for emergencies



 Recover from disasters



 Close or sell your business



 Hire employees with disabilities





 Grow your business



 Get more funding



 Expand to new locations



 Merge and acquire businesses



 Become a federal contractor



 Export products



 Women-owned businesses



 Native American-owned businesses



 Veteran-owned businesses



 Military spouse businesses



 Rural businesses



 Minority-owned businesses










Funding Programs




 Find funding programs




 Loans



 Make a payment to SBA



 7(a) loans



 504 loans



 Microloans



 Lender Match



 COVID-19 relief options





 Investment capital



 SBIC directory





 Disaster assistance



 Alaska floods



 Texas floods



 California wildfires



 Hurricane Helene



 Physical damage loans



 Mitigation assistance



 Economic Injury Disaster Loans



 Military reservist loan





 Surety bonds



 Surety bond agency directory





 Grants



 Manufacturing grants



 State Trade Expansion Program (STEP)



 Grants for community organizations










Federal Contracting




 Learn about federal contracting




 Contracting guide



 Assess your business



 Basic requirements



 How to win contracts



 Types of contracts



 Size standards



 Governing rules and responsibilities



 Prime and subcontracting





 Contracting assistance programs



 Small Disadvantaged Business



 Women-Owned Small Business Federal Contract program



 Veteran contracting assistance programs



 8(a) Business Development program



 SBA Mentor-Protégé program



 Joint ventures



 HUBZone program



 Natural Resource Sales Assistance program





 Counseling and help



 Contracting area directors



 Procurement Center Representative directory



 Commercial Market Representatives





 Contracting data



 Small business procurement scorecard



 Disaggregated data










Learning Platform




 Explore our learning platform




 MySBA Learning



 Boots to Business



 SBA THRIVE



 Empower to Grow








Local Assistance




 Find resources in your area




 Resource Partners



 Small Business Development Centers (SBDC)



 SCORE Business Mentoring



 Veterans Business Outreach Centers (VBOC)



 Women's Business Centers





 Export and trade assistance



 Finance Managers



 U.S. Export Assistance Centers





 Federal contracting assistance



 Regional Innovation Clusters



 Veterans Business Development Officers








Priorities




 Discover SBA's priorities




 Putting American manufacturers first



 Cutting red tape for small manufacturers



 Increasing access to capital



 Make Onshoring Great Again portal



 Taking your manufacturing business global



 Manufacturing success stories





 Small business resource hubs



 Child care business development support



 Interagency capital resources for small businesses





 SBA initiatives



 Community Builders Network



 Small Businesses Against Trafficking in Persons (SBATiP)





 Councils and committees



 National Small Business Development Center Advisory Board



 Invention, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Advisory Committee



 Investment Capital Advisory Committee



 Small Business Lending Advisory Council



 Regional Regulatory Fairness Boards










About SBA




 Learn about SBA




 SBA locations



 Headquarters Offices



 Disaster Offices



 District Offices



 Loan and Guaranty Centers





 Open government



 FOIA



 Digital SBA



 About the SBA.gov website



 SBA privacy program



 Privacy Act request guide



 Information quality



 SBA guidance



 AI inventory



 Made in America waivers



 SMS terms and conditions





 SBA Newsroom



 Work for SBA



 Employee life



 Jobs at SBA



 Contracting for SBA



 Disaster response jobs at SBA





 Organization



 SBA leadership



 Contact SBA



 Forms and documents



 Observances



 Performance



 Federal advisory committees





 Oversight and advocacy



 Office of Hearings and Appeals



 Office of Inspector General



 Office of the National Ombudsman



 Office of Advocacy





 Information in other languages











            For Partners
          



            Newsroom
          



            Contact us
          



            Other languages
          




Search
















Breadcrumb



Home




Business Guide




Plan your business



Market research and competitive analysis













Section navigation



10 steps to start your business




Plan your business




Market research and competitive analysis




Write your business plan




Calculate your startup costs




Establish business credit




Fund your business




Buy an existing business or franchise






Launch your business




Manage your business




Grow your business







Market research and competitive analysis





      Market research helps you find customers for your business. Competitive analysis helps you make your business unique. Combine them to find a competitive advantage for your small business.
    


Content





      Use market research to find customers
    


Market research blends consumer behavior and economic trends to confirm and improve your business idea.
It’s crucial to understand your consumer base from the outset. Market research lets you reduce risks even while your business is still just a gleam in your eye.
Gather demographic information to better understand opportunities and limitations for gaining customers. This could include population data on age, wealth, family, interests, or anything else that’s relevant for your business.
Then answer the following questions to get a good sense of your market:

Demand: Is there a desire for your product or service?
Market size: How many people would be interested in your offering?
Economic indicators: What is the income range and employment rate?
Location: Where do your customers live and where can your business reach?
Market saturation: How many similar options are already available to consumers?
Pricing: What do potential customers pay for these alternatives?

You’ll also want to keep up with the latest small business trends. It’s important to gain a sense of the specific market share that will impact your profits.
You can do market research using existing sources, or you can do the research yourself and go direct to consumers.
Existing sources can save you a lot of time and energy, but the information might not be as specific to your audience as you’d like. Use it to answer questions that are both general and quantifiable, like industry trends, demographics, and household incomes. Check online or start with our list of market research resources.
Asking consumers yourself can give you a nuanced understanding of your specific target audience. But, direct research can be time consuming and expensive. Use it to answer questions about your specific business or customers, like reactions to your logo, improvements you could make to buying experience, and where customers might go instead of your business.
Here are a few methods you can use to do direct research:

Surveys
Questionnaires
Focus groups
In-depth interviews

For guidance on deciding which methods are worthwhile for your small business, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) provides counseling services through our resource partner network.




      Use competitive analysis to find a market advantage
    


Competitive analysis helps you learn from businesses competing for your potential customers. This is key to defining a competitive edge that creates sustainable revenue.
Your competitive analysis should identify your competition by product line or service and market segment. Assess the following characteristics of the competitive landscape:

Market share
Strengths and weaknesses
Your window of opportunity to enter the market
The importance of your target market to your competitors
Any barriers that may hinder you as you enter the market
Indirect or secondary competitors who may impact your success

Several industries might be competing to serve the same market you’re targeting. Important factors to consider include level of competition, threat of new competitors or services, and the effect of suppliers and customers on price. Learn more in the Strategic Marketing Journey on MySBA Learning.




      Free small business data and trends
    


There are many reliable sources that provide customer and market information at no cost. Free statistics are readily available to help prospective small business owners.
Consider the following federal business statistics in your market research and competitive analysis:



Focus
Goal
Reference




General business statistics
Find information about business classifications and get data about your potential business market.


NAICS
U.S. Census Business Builder




Consumer statistics
Get info on current and past consumer credit statistics, and browse product safety reports from various industries.


Consumer Credit Data
Consumer Product Safety




Demographics
Segment the population for targeting customers.


U.S. Census Bureau
Bureau of Labor Statistics




Economic indicators
Stay aware of current unemployment rates, loans granted, and more.


Consumer Price Index
Bureau of Economic Analysis




Employment statistics
Dig deeper into employment trends for your market.


Employment and Unemployment Statistics




Income statistics
Pay your employees fair rates based on earnings data.


Earnings by Occupation and Education
Income Statistics




Money and interest rates
Keep money by mastering exchange and interest rates.


Daily Interest Rates
Money Statistics via Federal Reserve




Production and sales statistics
Understand demand, costs, and consumer spending.


Consumer Spending
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)




Trade statistics
Track indicators of sales and market performance.


Balance of Payments
International Trade




Statistics of specific industries
Use a wealth of federal agency data on industries.


Statistics of U.S. Businesses





 





Need help? Get free business counseling

Find counselors






                          Last updated September 23, 2025          








Return to top







Footer navigation



About SBA


Contact SBA


Locations


Upcoming events


Newsroom


SBA blog


Leadership team







About the site


Site map


Privacy policy


Linking policy


Plain language


Accessibility


Disclaimers







Open government


Freedom of Information Act


No Fear Act


Open data sources


Policies and guidance


Budget and performance


Regulations.gov







Oversight


Inspector General


Advocacy


Hearings and appeals


Ombudsman


Fraud and identity theft


WhiteHouse.gov


USA.gov










Sign up
Receive information about upcoming SBA events, news alerts, and program updates.

*
    indicates a required field




Email



ZIP Code








  Your information will only be used in accordance with our
  website privacy policy.

















U.S. Small Business Administration409 3rd St., SWWashington, DC 20416800-827-5722










































