



















Strengthen your cybersecurity | U.S. Small Business Administration













  Skip to main content












            An official website of the United States government
          

            Here’s how you know
          


Here’s how you know









 Official websites use .gov 

                A .gov website belongs to an official government
                organization in the United States.            






 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 

                A lock (
                
Lock
Locked padlock

                ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
                the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
                secure websites.            

















Special announcement

Senate Democrats voted to block a clean federal funding bill (H.R. 5371), leading to a government shutdown that is preventing the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) from serving America’s 36 million small businesses.
Every day that Senate Democrats continue to oppose a clean funding bill, they are stopping an estimated 320 small businesses from accessing $170 million in SBA-guaranteed funding.
As a result of the shutdown, we wanted to notify you that many of our services supporting small businesses are currently unavailable.  The agency is executing its Lapse Plan and as soon as the shutdown is over, we are prepared to immediately return to the record-breaking services we were providing under the leadership of the Trump Administration.
If you need disaster assistance, please visit sba.gov/disaster.

















EnglishEspañol


        Menu
      








Primary Navigation







Business Guide




 Explore our business guide




 10 steps to start your business



 Plan your business



 Market research and competitive analysis



 Write your business plan



 Calculate your startup costs



 Establish business credit



 Fund your business



 Buy an existing business or franchise





 Launch your business



 Pick your business location



 Choose a business structure



 Choose your business name



 Register your business



 Get federal and state tax ID numbers



 Apply for licenses and permits



 Open a business bank account



 Get business insurance





 Manage your business



 Manage your finances



 Hire and manage employees



 Pay taxes



 Stay legally compliant



 Buy assets and equipment



 Marketing and sales



 AI for small business



 Strengthen your cybersecurity



 Prepare for emergencies



 Recover from disasters



 Close or sell your business



 Hire employees with disabilities





 Grow your business



 Get more funding



 Expand to new locations



 Merge and acquire businesses



 Become a federal contractor



 Export products



 Women-owned businesses



 Native American-owned businesses



 Veteran-owned businesses



 Military spouse businesses



 Rural businesses



 Minority-owned businesses










Funding Programs




 Find funding programs




 Loans



 Make a payment to SBA



 7(a) loans



 504 loans



 Microloans



 Lender Match



 COVID-19 relief options





 Investment capital



 SBIC directory





 Disaster assistance



 Alaska floods



 Texas floods



 California wildfires



 Hurricane Helene



 Physical damage loans



 Mitigation assistance



 Economic Injury Disaster Loans



 Military reservist loan





 Surety bonds



 Surety bond agency directory





 Grants



 Manufacturing grants



 State Trade Expansion Program (STEP)



 Grants for community organizations










Federal Contracting




 Learn about federal contracting




 Contracting guide



 Assess your business



 Basic requirements



 How to win contracts



 Types of contracts



 Size standards



 Governing rules and responsibilities



 Prime and subcontracting





 Contracting assistance programs



 Small Disadvantaged Business



 Women-Owned Small Business Federal Contract program



 Veteran contracting assistance programs



 8(a) Business Development program



 SBA Mentor-Protégé program



 Joint ventures



 HUBZone program



 Natural Resource Sales Assistance program





 Counseling and help



 Contracting area directors



 Procurement Center Representative directory



 Commercial Market Representatives





 Contracting data



 Small business procurement scorecard



 Disaggregated data










Learning Platform




 Explore our learning platform




 MySBA Learning



 Boots to Business



 SBA THRIVE



 Empower to Grow








Local Assistance




 Find resources in your area




 Resource Partners



 Small Business Development Centers (SBDC)



 SCORE Business Mentoring



 Veterans Business Outreach Centers (VBOC)



 Women's Business Centers





 Export and trade assistance



 Finance Managers



 U.S. Export Assistance Centers





 Federal contracting assistance



 Regional Innovation Clusters



 Veterans Business Development Officers








Priorities




 Discover SBA's priorities




 Putting American manufacturers first



 Cutting red tape for small manufacturers



 Increasing access to capital



 Make Onshoring Great Again portal



 Taking your manufacturing business global



 Manufacturing success stories





 Small business resource hubs



 Child care business development support



 Interagency capital resources for small businesses





 SBA initiatives



 Community Builders Network



 Small Businesses Against Trafficking in Persons (SBATiP)





 Councils and committees



 National Small Business Development Center Advisory Board



 Invention, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Advisory Committee



 Investment Capital Advisory Committee



 Small Business Lending Advisory Council



 Regional Regulatory Fairness Boards










About SBA




 Learn about SBA




 SBA locations



 Headquarters Offices



 Disaster Offices



 District Offices



 Loan and Guaranty Centers





 Open government



 FOIA



 Digital SBA



 About the SBA.gov website



 SBA privacy program



 Privacy Act request guide



 Information quality



 SBA guidance



 AI inventory



 Made in America waivers



 SMS terms and conditions





 SBA Newsroom



 Work for SBA



 Employee life



 Jobs at SBA



 Contracting for SBA



 Disaster response jobs at SBA





 Organization



 SBA leadership



 Contact SBA



 Forms and documents



 Observances



 Performance



 Federal advisory committees





 Oversight and advocacy



 Office of Hearings and Appeals



 Office of Inspector General



 Office of the National Ombudsman



 Office of Advocacy





 Information in other languages











            For Partners
          



            Newsroom
          



            Contact us
          



            Other languages
          




Search
















Breadcrumb



Home




Business Guide




Manage your business



Strengthen your cybersecurity













Section navigation



10 steps to start your business




Plan your business




Launch your business




Manage your business




Manage your finances




Hire and manage employees




Pay taxes




Stay legally compliant




Buy assets and equipment




Marketing and sales




AI for small business




Strengthen your cybersecurity




Prepare for emergencies




Recover from disasters




Close or sell your business




Hire employees with disabilities






Grow your business







Strengthen your cybersecurity





      Cyberattacks are a concern for small businesses. Learn about cybersecurity threats and how to protect yourself.
    


Content





      Why cybersecurity matters
    


Cyberattacks cost the U.S. economy billions of dollars a year. They also pose a threat for individuals and organizations. Businesses can be attractive targets for cyber criminals. Small businesses in particular may lack the means to protect their digital systems.  
Surveys have shown that many small businesses feel vulnerable to a cyberattack. Many small businesses cannot afford professional IT solutions. They may also lack time to devote to cybersecurity, or may not know where to begin.
Start protecting your small business by:

Learning about cybersecurity best practices
Understanding common threats
Dedicating resources to improve your cybersecurity 





      Best practices for preventing cyberattacks
    


Train your employees
What is the leading cause of small business data breaches? Employees and work-related communications. They are direct pathways into your systems. Train your employees on internet usage best practices. This can help in preventing cyberattacks.  
Other useful training topics include:

Spotting phishing emails
Using good internet browsing practices
Avoiding suspicious downloads
Enabling authentication tools (strong passwords, Multi-Factor Authentication, etc.)
Protecting sensitive vendor and customer information 

Secure your networks
Safeguard your internet connection by encrypting information and using a firewall. If you have a Wi-Fi network, make sure it is secure and hidden. This means setting up your wireless access point or router so it does not broadcast the network name. This is also called the Service Set Identifier (SSID). Make sure your router is password protected. If you have employees working remotely, they should use a Virtual Private Network (VPN). A VPN will connect to your network securely from their location. 
Use antivirus software and keep all software updated
Install antivirus software on all business’s computers, and update them regularly. Antivirus software can be found online from a variety of different vendors. All software vendors provide patches and updates to correct and improve security and operations. It is best to configure your software to install updates automatically. Also update all operating systems, web browsers, and other applications. This will help secure all business data. 
Enable Multi-Factor Authentication
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is an important security measure. It verifies someone’s identity by requiring more than a username and password alone. MFA may require users to provide two or more of the following:  

Something the user knows (password, phrase, PIN)  
Something the user has (physical token, phone)  
Something that physically identifies the user (fingerprint, facial recognition)  

Check with your vendors to see if they offer MFA for any of your accounts (for example, financial, accounting, payroll). 
Monitor and manage Cloud Service Provider (CSP) accounts
Using a CSP to host information and collaboration services adds needed security, especially under a hybrid work model. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) providers for email and workplace productivity can help secure data. 
Secure, protect, and back up sensitive data

Secure payment processing - Work with your banks or card processors to ensure you are using the most trusted tools and anti-fraud services. You may also have security obligations related to agreements with your bank or payment processor. It’s best to isolate payment systems from less secure programs. For example, do not use the same computer to process payments and casually browse the internet.
Control physical access - Prevent access to business computers from unauthorized individuals. Laptops and mobile devices can be easy targets for theft and can be lost, so lock them if they are unattended. Make sure each employee has a separate user account, and that accounts require a strong password. 
Restrict privileges - Administrative privileges should only be given to trusted IT staff and key personnel. Perform access audits within your business on a regular basis. This ensures that former employees are removed from your systems. When applicable, former employees should return all company-issued devices.
Back up your data - Regularly back up data on all your computers. If possible, perform data backups to cloud storage on a weekly basis. This will help minimize data loss. Critical data may include:

Financial, human resources, and accounting files
Word-processing documents, electronic spreadsheets, and online databases


Control data access - Audit the data and information you are housing in cloud storage repositories on a regular basis. This can mean audits of your Dropbox, Google Drive, Box, and Microsoft Services. Appoint administrators for cloud storage drive and collaboration tools. Instruct administrators to monitor user permissions as well. Employees should have access to only the information they need.





      Common threats
    


While it’s important to use best practices in your cybersecurity strategy, preventative measures only go so far. Cyberattacks constantly change, and business owners should be aware of the most common types. To learn more about a specific threat, click on the link provided to view a short video or fact sheet. 






        Malware
      



Malware (malicious software) is software designed to harm a computer, server, or computer network. Malware can include viruses and ransomware.





        Viruses
      



Viruses are harmful programs intended to spread from device to device like a disease. Cyber criminals use viruses to gain access to your systems. This can cause significant and sometimes unrepairable issues.





        Ransomware
      



Ransomware is a type of malware. It infects and restricts access to a computer until the owner provides some sort of ransom. Ransomware can encrypt data on a device, and demand money in return for a promise to restore it. Ransomware exploits unpatched vulnerabilities in software and is usually delivered through phishing emails.





        Spyware
      



Spyware is a form of malware. It gathers information from a target and sends it to another entity without consent. Some spyware is legitimate and legal. It may operate for commercial purposes, like advertising data collected by social media platforms. Malicious spyware, however, illegally steals information and sends it to other parties.





        Phishing
      



Phishing is a common type of cyberattack. It can use things like links in an email to infect your system with malware to collect sensitive information. Phishing emails can appear legitimate, or appear to be sent from a known entity. These emails often entice users to click on fraudulent links or open attachments containing malicious code. Be cautious about opening links from unknown sources. If something seems suspicious from a known source, don’t click on it - ask the source directly if it's legitimate.







      Assess your business risk
    


To improve your business’s cybersecurity, it’s best to understand the risk of an attack. It’s also important to know where you can safeguard your data and systems.
A cybersecurity risk assessment can identify where your business is vulnerable. It can also help create a plan of action. This plan of action should include: 

Guidance on user training
Information on securing email platforms
Instructions for protecting your business’s information systems and data

Planning and assessment tools
There’s no substitute for dedicated IT support, even if expensive. This can be an employee or external consultant. Here is a list of measures that all businesses can take to improve their cybersecurity. 

Create a cybersecurity plan. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) offers a cybersecurity planning tool (The Small Biz Cyber Planner 2.0). This tool can help you build a custom strategy and cybersecurity plan.
Conduct a Cyber Resilience Review. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) partnered with the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) Division of Carnegie Mellon University’s Software Engineering Institute to create the Cyber Resilience Review (CRR). This is a non-technical assessment to test operational resilience and cybersecurity practices. You can either complete the assessment yourself, or request a facilitated assessment by DHS cybersecurity professionals.
Conduct vulnerability scans. These are offered through the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). CISA offers scanning and testing services that assess exposure to threats to help keep systems secure. DHS also offers free cyber hygiene vulnerability scanning for small businesses.
Manage information communication technology (ICT) supply chain risk. Use the ICT Supply Chain Risk Management Toolkit to help shield business information and communications from supply chain attacks. Developed by CISA, this toolkit includes resources designed to raise awareness and reduce the impact of supply chain risks.
Take advantage of free cybersecurity services and tools. CISA has a list of free cybersecurity resources like open-source tools and services offered by private and public sector organizations, along with guidance for small businesses. Additionally, the FTC has guidance on how to protect yourself from scams and keep your customers’ data safe.
Maintain DoD industry partner compliance (if applicable). Federal contractors and subcontractors should be aware of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) program. Its purpose is to safeguard Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) shared by the DoD. CMMC is a framework and assessor certification program for cybersecurity standards and requirements. Under CMMC, companies must implement security measures depending on the information’s sensitivity. These will be assessed accordingly. Rulemaking is currently in progress, but contractors should be aware of requirements. You will need to meet a certain CMMC level is as a condition of contract award. 





      Training and events
    


SBA training
SBA and its resource partners host in-person and virtual cybersecurity events.
Other training
The National Cybersecurity Alliance is a public-private partnership. It provides virtual and in-person cybersecurity events to help small business owners stay secure.




                              Short URL: sba.gov/cybersecurity
                    
                    Last updated July 2, 2024          








Return to top







Footer navigation



About SBA


Contact SBA


Locations


Upcoming events


Newsroom


SBA blog


Leadership team







About the site


Site map


Privacy policy


Linking policy


Plain language


Accessibility


Disclaimers







Open government


Freedom of Information Act


No Fear Act


Open data sources


Policies and guidance


Budget and performance


Regulations.gov







Oversight


Inspector General


Advocacy


Hearings and appeals


Ombudsman


Fraud and identity theft


WhiteHouse.gov


USA.gov










Sign up
Receive information about upcoming SBA events, news alerts, and program updates.

*
    indicates a required field




Email



ZIP Code








  Your information will only be used in accordance with our
  website privacy policy.

















U.S. Small Business Administration409 3rd St., SWWashington, DC 20416800-827-5722










































